I started right before the merger in
1968 and we've had various operating
session schemes since then I think we
had one in 68 and then we moved up to
1974 and then we were about 1980 right
now we're in 86 or 87 and eventually
we're going to go to 1994 1995 so it's
that way
that's when the Burlington Northern
ceased existence so then we'll start
over again yeah we have operating
sessions we have a round-robin group
that meets here we meet every Thursday
night I've done that for years and years
I have anywhere from 7 to 10 12 people
depending on the night to show up
typical operating session we run 4550
trains I built a lot of engines paint a
lot of stuff as you go around the layout
probably a third of the cars on here I
painted the most of the engines I
painted over the years
the the control system we have is
something that one time in Model
Railroader they had an article and we
built four of those about 20 years ago
already and I built four more here in
the last couple years so and they work
nice geographic part of the layout right
now is really from Lincoln to to
Billings with the old CB and cue and
then from the Billings on down to
Seattle was old Northern Pacific and
Great Northern and when we were in our
1968 mode that's how we operated those
units would with interchange up there
and the Billings yard up here and go
back toward Lincoln where the other
stuff would run back and forth between
one of my hidden yard switch with
Minneapolis and the west coast
physically the layout is is a complete
double deck all the way around the
layout they're actually three or four
other levels that you don't see that
allow me to get trains in and off the
layout as an interchange but just
basically you know one by four
construction cantilever brought off the
walls the reason that the various
sections are the heights they are is the
very first section I built goes over the
top of my washer and dryer and that kind
of set the tone for everything it also
allows me if you was over the other side
I have three great big file cabinets
underneath the layout that again whether
that was set the height of it because
they had to go on top of that because
I've got all kind of records that I have
to keep over there I didn't get too low
on these because it's hard to see them
otherwise the lower levels over here are
very convenient to operate out of a
regular folding chair you know they're
their night Heights you can set here and
operate everything and one of the
gentlemen that operates for me that's
the reason he likes to work over here
because he sat down
he rolls back and forth from went into
the layout the other and doesn't work in
as a good time I like the part that I've
got the scenery done on that's always
been my really weakest point and I don't
like doing it because it's just so like
where we're at right now if you look
back down here most of this end of the
layout is done except for a few pieces
down to here and there's a big big long
area over on the other side that's
probably 70 feet long and I have gotten
done and when you run the trains down
hills over there they look real nice
you